Markdown Recipe (#3270)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/recipes/reading-time.mdx

---
title: Add Reading Time
description: Build a remark plugin to add reading time to your Markdown or MDX files.
i18nReady: false
type: recipe
---

import PackageManagerTabs from '~/components/tabs/PackageManagerTabs.astro'

> Create a [remark plugin](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark) which adds a reading time property to your Markdown or MDX files's frontmatter. Use this property to display the reading time for each page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a [remark plugin](https://github.com/remarkjs/remark) which adds a reading time property to the frontmatter of your Markdown or MDX files. Use this property to display the reading time for each page.
```

## Recipe

1. Install Helper Packages

Install these two helper packages:
- [`reading-time`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/reading-time) to calculate minutes read
- [`mdast-util-to-string`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/mdast-util-to-string) to extract all text from your markdown

<PackageManagerTabs>
  <Fragment slot="npm">
  ```shell
npm install reading-time mdast-util-to-string
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="pnpm">
  ```shell
pnpm install reading-time mdast-util-to-string
  ```
  </Fragment>
  <Fragment slot="yarn">
  ```shell
yarn add reading-time mdast-util-to-string
  ```
  </Fragment>
</PackageManagerTabs>

2. Create a remark plugin.

> This plugin uses the mdast-util-to-string package to get the markdown file's text. This text is then passed to the reading-time package to calculate the reading time in minutes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This plugin uses the `mdast-util-to-string` package to get the Markdown file's text. This text is then passed to the `reading-time` package to calculate the reading time in minutes. 
```

```js title="remark-reading-time.mjs"
import getReadingTime from 'reading-time';
import { toString } from 'mdast-util-to-string';

export function remarkReadingTime() {
  return function (tree, { data }) {
    const textOnPage = toString(tree);
    const readingTime = getReadingTime(textOnPage);
    // readingTime.text will give us minutes read as a friendly string,
    // i.e. "3 min read"
    data.astro.frontmatter.minutesRead = readingTime.text;
  };
}
```

3. Add the plugin to your config:

```js title="astro.config.mjs" "import { remarkReadingTime } from './remark-reading-time.mjs';" "remarkPlugins: [remarkReadingTime],"
import { defineConfig } from 'astro/config';
import { remarkReadingTime } from './remark-reading-time.mjs';

export default defineConfig({
  markdown: {
    remarkPlugins: [remarkReadingTime],
  },
});
```

Now all Markdown documents will have a calculated `minutesRead` property in their frontmatter. 

4. Display Reading Time

> Use the minutesRead property to display the reading time in a [markdown layout.](/en/guides/markdown-content/#markdown-and-mdx-pages) For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `minutesRead` frontmatter property from `Astro.props` to add the reading time to a [Markdown layout](/en/guides/markdown-content/#markdown-and-mdx-pages). The example layout below displays the reading time above the page content:
```
